# Database and Algorithm Research

## Literature Research

**A novel approach to calculate individuals’ carbon footprints using financial transaction data - App development and design [(2020)](documents\Literature\Andersson_2020.pdf)**

Abstract

Carbon calculators can potentially help people understand and reduce their climate impact. This paper describes the features of Svalna, a mobile application that estimates users’ greenhouse gas emissions by means of a hybrid approach that relies on financial transaction data from the users’ bank paired with environmentally extended input output analysis; data from official registers of governmental agencies, and data entered by the users themselves. Applying financial transaction data in carbon calculators is increasingly popular, and I discuss the benefits and drawbacks of using such data in order to estimate greenhouse gas emissions. The paper also describes how design features have been developed based on insights from behavioral science and previous research on carbon calculators. The mobile application is available for use in Sweden and had approximately 15,000 users in December 2019.

Key points
- Carbon calculator on the mobile app for individuals -- Svalna
- Data
	- official documents of Swedish governmental agencies
	- transaction data
	- (data entered by the user)
- Mention similar carbon calculators
- User interface
<p><br>


**Explainable Automatic Industrial Carbon Footprint Estimation From Bank Transaction Classification Using Natural Language Processing [(2022)](documents\Literature\González-González_2022.pdf)**

Abstract

Concerns about the effect of greenhouse gases have motivated the development of certification protocols to quantify the industrial carbon footprint (cf). These protocols are manual, work-intensive, and expensive. All of the above have led to a shift towards automatic data-driven approaches to estimate the cf, including Machine Learning (ml) solutions. Unfortunately, as in other sectors of interest, the decision-making processes involved in these solutions lack transparency from the end user’s point of view, who must blindly trust their outcomes compared to intelligible traditional manual approaches. In this research, manual and automatic methodologies for cf estimation were reviewed, taking into account their transparency limitations. This analysis led to the proposal of a new explainable ml solution for automatic cf calculations through bank transaction classification. Consideration should be given to the fact that no previous research has considered the explainability of bank transaction classification for this purpose. For classification, different ml models have been employed based on their promising performance in similar problems in the literature, such as Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, and Recursive Neural Networks. The results obtained were in the 90 % range for accuracy, precision, and recall evaluation metrics. From their decision paths, the proposed solution estimates the co2 emissions associated with bank transactions. The explainability methodology is based on an agnostic evaluation of the influence of the input terms extracted from the descriptions of transactions using locally interpretable models. The explainability terms were automatically validated using a similarity metric over the descriptions of the target categories. Conclusively, the explanation performance is satisfactory in terms of the proximity of the explanations to the associated activity sector descriptions, endorsing the trustworthiness of the process for a human operator and end users.

Key points
- Carbon estimation for industry
- Machine Learning method
- Many useful links
	- Classification of Individual Consumption by Purpose by the United Nations
- Dataset: 25,853 bank transactions issued by Spanish banks
- Detailed calculation for carbon footprint
<p><br>


**Estimating carbon footprints from large scale financial transaction data [(2023)](documents\Literature\Trendl_2023.pdf)**

Abstract

Financial transactions are increasingly used by consumer apps and financial service providers to estimate consumption-based carbon emissions. This approach promises a low-resource, ultra-fast, and highly scalable approach to measuring emissions at different levels of potential policy intervention—spanning the national, subnational, local, and individual level. Despite this potential, there is a lack of research exploring the validity of this approach to carbon profiling. Here we address this oversight in three ways. First, we provide a step-by-step description of our approach toward estimating carbon footprints from micro-level transaction data generated by more than 100,000 customers of a large retail bank in the United Kingdom. Second, we quantitatively compare emission estimates obtained from transaction data with those calculated from a more standard data source used in carbon profiling, the largest household expenditure survey in the United Kingdom. Third, we offer a detailed qualitative comparison of the advantages and disadvantages of transactions versus alternative data sources (such as survey data), across key dimensions including data availability, data quality, and data detail. We find that financial transactions offer a credible alternative to survey-based sources and, if made more widely accessible, could provide important advantages for profiling emissions. These include objective, micro-level data on consumption behaviors, larger sample sizes, and longitudinal, frequent data capture.

Key points
- Computing method: carbon emission factor
- Dataset: 2018 spend data from an anonymous sample of 101,744 customers from one of the United Kingdom’s largest retail banks (Lloyds Banking Group)
	- just use in comparation
- Compare the approach to those calculated from the LCFS household spend survey in the UK
<p><br>


**Visualization of an Individual Carbon Footprint Mitigation Plan Using Transaction Data [(2021)](documents\Literature\BRÅNEMARK_2021.pdf)**

Abstract

Achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreements requires actions being taken on different fronts. This study looked into how to visualize a carbon footprint mitigation plan for individuals. The research consisted of designing and implementing a prototype containing visualization of a mitigation plan in the Swedish mobile app DO, a newer type of carbon calculator that uses transaction data to estimate the users' carbon footprints. A user study was then conducted with app users to evaluate the visualization. Findings from the study involved that proper handling of data is important for what a mitigation plan communicates to the user, but that receiving guidance on how to proceed ahead was greatly appreciated regardless. For future research, the visualization of a mitigation plan on small screens could be developed further with the prototype developed for this study as a starting point. It was suggested that such research could revolve around interaction improvements, evaluation with more frequent users, and observing whether a mitigation plan could affect behavior change.

Key points
- Case analysis for carbon calculator
	- Swedish mobile app DO
	- Swedish mobile app Svalna
- How to do visualisation
- Not a highly influential article, but can be referenced

### Conclusion

Using official data to calculate carbon emission factor may better than using transaction dataset to train a model.
- Data availability
- Data reliability
<p><br>


## Useful Website

- [Carbonfond](https://carbonfund.org/calculation-methods/#)
- [US EPA](https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/household-carbon-footprint-calculator)
- [Eora Global MRIO](https://worldmrio.com/)
- [UNSD](https://unstats.un.org/unsd/envstats/climatechange.cshtml)
- [World Resources Institute](https://www.wri.org/data/overview-80-climate-data-platforms)